# Fitness Note Taking App: Dissertation Project

Welcome to the documentation for my dissertation project. 
This project focuses on the development and testing of a mobile application called FNTA: Fitness note taking app which designed to help users manage their workout, tracking progress and creating resting timer.

## Overview

The application provides a user-friendly interface to track progress, creating workout files, add your custom exercise and compare performance over time.
It includes features such as:

- **Logging Workout Sets**: Users can log each set of their workouts with details such as repetitions, weights, and rest periods.
- **Workout Comparison**: The app enables users to compare their current workouts with those from previous weeks to monitor progress.
- **Adding Extra Sets**: Users can add additional sets to their exercises dynamically.
- **Customizable Workouts**: Users can create workout names, exercises, and set configurations to suit their fitness goals.
- **Resting timer**: Users can also create their custom resting timer which triggers automatically upon logging your set 

## Getting Started

Follow the steps below to set up and run the project on your local machine.

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have met the following requirements:

- **Node.js**: Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/).
- **Expo CLI**: Install Expo CLI globally: [Expo Documentation](https://docs.expo.dev/)
  ```
  npm install -g expo-cli
  ```
- **Expo Go**: Install Expo Go on your mobile device.
- **Optional**: Install Andriod studio, or Xcode if you want to run the application via simulator.
  
  
#### Installation

Installation Instruction

1. Clone the Repository: git clone https://github.com/natchalux/FNTA-dissertation 

2. Navigate to the Project Directory

Change into the project directory:

```
cd your-repo
```
Install Dependencies
Install the necessary packages:

```
npm install
```

If using icons from Iconify, ensure they are properly linked within the project.

**Running the Application**

By typing this command in your terminal:

```
npx expo start
```

**Testing on a your device**
1. Scan the QR code generated by Expo using the Expo Go app on your device to run the app.
2. Running on Andriod Simutator- Make you have your simulator running, Press "a" to open Android.



## Usage

#### Registration and login
1. On the landing page, click sign in to redirect to the sign page
2. If you do not have an account already, sign up usign email, username and password(8-character in length)

#### HomePage
1. Create your first workout file using the "Add new split" button.
2. Type in your desire workout name, then click done.
3. Add custom exercise in the next page, you can add multiple exercises if you wish
4. Start tracking

#### Tracking Workout 
1. Inside the file you just created, navigate to the manage workout page.
2. Each exercise now accompanied with an initial set input, log set button and add set button.
3. "add set" if ypu want to perform more than one set per exercise
4. "log set" when you finish your workout set in real life. Record the set, for example, Barbel Bench Press 10kg- 10 Reps
5. "New session: allow you to jump to the subsequent week, it will reset the input set and shows the progress from previous week that you logged.
6. Try to beat the record by performing a little more than the previous session, this is called "Progressive Overload"

#### Set a resting timer
1. Now jump to the timer tab on the home page
2. Set your desire resting timer, by minute and second.
3. Or choose our preset resting timer
4. Now everytime you logged set, the resting timer will trigger automatically, allow you to rest optimally and prevent spending too much time in the gym

#### What if I want to log out?
1. Navigate to the menu tabs, there is a logout button that allow you to delete your session.


## Tips for the first timer, or how to use to app effectively 

1. Trying to increase the weight or reps in each session. It can be either or both.
2. Stick with the same exercise and routine. Consistency is key

With consistency and tracking ypur progress regularly, its ensure your fitness progress and see your result quickly.

Thank you for trying out this app, enjoy tracking!
   

